Add properties user guide (#1026)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/vision/vision_properties.rst

===============
Data Properties
===============

Some of the Deepchecks' checks (e.g. train-test drift) use "Properties". Properties are simple one-dimension values that
are extracted either from the images, labels or predictions of the data.

For example, one image property is **brightness**, and one label property is **bounding box area** (for detection

> tasks). Each property produces a single value per image or per individual label in the image.

Reviewer: I actually dislike both of these paragraphs. I think the structure could be better, as IMO it's weird to begin by "what's using it" instead of "what is it".

My suggestion for these paragraphs:

Image, label or prediction properties are one-dimension values that are extracted either from the data, such as image brightness or label bounding box area. 

These properties are used by some of the Deepchecks' checks (e.g. train-test drift), in order to extract meaningful features over the data (as drift, for example, is difficult to compute directly on images)

What Are Properties Used For?
=============================

The properties values' distribution is a characteristic of your data that might have hidden a relation to your

> model performance. They might come handy in a few situations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model performance. They might come in handy a few situations:
```

1. New unlabeled data: To approximate how your model will work on the new data, since you don't have labels

>    in order to do a performance check. If the new data's properties are different by a large margin from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in order to do a performance check. If the new data's properties are significantly different from the
```

>    train's properties, then it might indicate the model will have harder time inferring on it.

Reviewer: This paragraph says "drift" without saying drift. Why not call it "detecting drift in your data"?

>    train's properties, then it might indicate the model will have harder time inferring on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   train's properties, then it might indicate the model's predictions will be less accurate.
```

2. Low test performance: If your model is having low performance on your test data, a good step in debugging
   it is to check the drift of different properties between the train and the test. If there are some

>    properties with a high drift it might help you pinpoint to a relevant causes of the model's low performance.

Reviewer: I don't see the difference between 1 and 2.

Author: 1 is for unlabeled data, 2 is for labeled data

> 3. Find leakage in the model: Sometimes the model training might be affected the properties we are not aware of,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Find bias in the data: Sometimes the model training might be affected the properties we are not aware of,
```

   and that aren't the core objective we are aiming to learn. For example, in a classification dataset of wolves
   and dogs photographs, if only wolves are photographed in the snow, the brightness of the image may be used to
   predict the label "wolf" easily. In this case, a model might not learn to discern wolf from dog by the animal's

>    characteristics, but by using the background color.

Reviewer: The rest of this paragraph is great, who's the genius who wrote this amazing piece of literature?

Reviewer: BTW I originally spelled "genius" wrong in this comment 🤣

4. Find weak segments: The properties can be used to segment the data and test for low performing segments.
   If found, the weak segment might indicate a gap in the training data where the data quality is worse.

Deepchecks' Default Properties
==============================

> We divide the data into 3 parts: images, labels and predictions. Each one have his own properties defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We divide the properties into 3 groups: image, label and prediction properties.
```

> When running checks you can either create your own properties or relay on Deepchecks' default properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running checks you can either create your own properties or rely on Deepchecks' default properties.
```

The default image properties are:

> - Aspect Ratio

Reviewer: Should be clear here that this is "height / width" and not the other way arond

- Area
- Brightness
- RMS (Root Mean Square) Contrast

> - Normalized Mean RGB channels: The normalized channels are calculated by first normalizing the image's pixels (meaning, each color is normalized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Normalized RGB Mean channels: The normalized channels are calculated by first normalizing the image's pixels (meaning, each color is normalized
```

  to its relevant intensity, by dividing the color intensity by the other colors). Then, the mean for each

>   image channel is calculated.

Reviewer: Can be shorter:

Mean color intensity for each channel. The color intensity is normalized according to the other color channels per pixel. This is done in order to capture the relationships between channels and not just general intensity (brightness)

  - Normalized Red Mean
  - Normalized Blue Mean
  - Normalized Green Mean

The default label & predictions properties are:

- Samples Per Class (classification + object detection)
- Bounding Box Area (object detection)
- Number of Bounding Boxes Per Image (object detection)

Property Structure
==================

> There are 3 types of properties:

Reviewer: Already mentioned, not sure if needs to be re-iterated

- Image Property
- Label Property
- Prediction Property

The structure of all properties is similar, it consists of dictionary with 3 keys:

- `name` - The name of the property
- `method` - A callable function which accepts data (see elaboration bellow), and returns a list of
  values.
- `output_type` - One of the following options:

  - `continuous` - For numeric values with continuous nature
  - `discrete` - For numeric values with discrete nature or non-numeric values
  - `class_id` - Means the output is of class ids. In this case we will try to translate the ids into their
    corresponding class labels.

Each dictionary is a single property, and the checks accepts a list of those dictionaries. For example:

.. code-block:: python

  def mean_image(images):
    return [image.mean() for image in images]

  properties = [
    {'name': 'My Image Mean', 'method': mean_image, 'output_type': 'continuous'}
  ]

The Method's Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The 3 types of properties gets different input and they are not interchangeable. For each check you will have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 3 types of properties receive different inputs and they are not interchangeable. For each check you will have
```

to pass the appropriate properties.

> The method input is either images, labels or predictions in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method's input is either images, labels or predictions in
```

> :doc:`Deepchecks' format </user-guide/vision/formatter_objects>`. We will demonstrate the 3 drift check (for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:doc:`Deepchecks' format </user-guide/vision/formatter_objects>`. We will demonstrate the 3 drift checks (for
```

> ===============

Reviewer 2: This file needs a table of contents. Will one be automatically generated in the docs?

Data Properties
===============

Properties are one-dimension values that are extracted from either the images, labels or predictions. For example, an
image property is **brightness**, and a label property is **bounding box area** (for detection tasks).
Deepchecks includes :ref:`built-in properties<Deepchecks' Built-in Properties>` and supports implementing your own
properties.

What Are Properties Used For?
=============================

Properties are used by some of the Deepchecks' checks (e.g. train-test drift), in order to extract meaningful
features from the data, since some computations are difficult to compute directly on the images (for example drift).
Inspecting the distribution of the property's values (e.g. to notice some images are extremely dark,
or that the aspect ratio of images is different between the train and test sets) can help uncover potential problems
in the way that the datasets were built, or hint about the model's expected performance on unseen data.

> Example for specific scenarios which these may come in handy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example for specific scenarios in which measuring properties may come in handy:
```

> #. **Investigating low test performance** - a high drift in certain properties may help you pinpoint the causes of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Investigating low test performance** - detecting high drift in certain properties may help you pinpoint the causes of
```

   the model's lower performance on the test data.
#. **Generalizability on new data** - a drift in significant data properties,

>    may indicate lower ability of the model to accurately predict on the new (different) data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   may indicate lower ability of the model to accurately predict on the new (different) unlabeled data.
```

#. **Find weak segments** - The properties can be used to segment the data and test for low performing segments.

>    If found, the weak segment may indicate a underrepresented segment or an area where the data quality is worse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If found, the weak segment may indicate an underrepresented segment or a segment where the data quality is worse.
```

> #. **Find obscure relations between the data and the targets** - the model training might be affected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Find obscured relations between the data and the targets** - the model training might be affected
```

   by properties we are not aware of, and that aren't the core attributes of what we are aiming for it to learn.
   For example, in a classification dataset of wolves and dogs photographs, if only wolves are photographed in
   the snow, the brightness of the image may be used to predict the label "wolf" easily. In this case, a model
   might not learn to discern wolf from dog by the animal's characteristics, but by using the background color.

Deepchecks' Built-in Properties
===============================

> We divide the properties by the data that they are based on: images, labels or predictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We divide the properties by the part of the data that they are based on: images, labels or predictions.
```

You can either use the built-in properties or implement your own ones and pass them to the relevant checks.

The built-in image properties are:

- Aspect Ratio (height / width)
- Area
- Brightness
- RMS (Root Mean Square) Contrast

> - RGB Mean Relative Intensity: Mean color intensity for each channel. The color intensity is normalized according to

Reviewer 2: Ask @nirhutnik to give you his newer explanation for that property.

====================

All property types have a similar structure, which is a dictionary with 3 keys:

- `name` - The name of the property
- `method` - The callable function that calculates the property's value. It accepts the relevant data and returns
the values list.
- `output_type` - Relates to the method's return values list, and is one of the following:

  - `continuous` - For numeric values with continuous nature
  - `discrete` - For numeric values with discrete nature or non-numeric values
  - `class_id` - Means the output is of class ids. In this case we will try to translate the ids into their
    corresponding class labels.

Each dictionary is a single property, and the checks accepts a list of those dictionaries. For example:

.. code-block:: python

  def mean_image(images):
    return [image.mean() for image in images]

  properties = [
    {'name': 'My Image Mean', 'method': mean_image, 'output_type': 'continuous'}
  ]

The Method's Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Each property is built for the specific data type that it runs on, and receives its deepchecks-expected format,
as demonstrated in :doc:`Deepchecks' format </user-guide/vision/formatter_objects>`.

> Note that prediction and label-based properties are not interchangeable, even if they calculate similar values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that prediction and label-based properties are not interchangeable due to their slightly different format, even if they calculate similar values.
```

Properties Demonstration
========================

We will demonstrate the 3 drift checks (for
each property type) and implement the properties to pass to it.

Image Property
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

  from deepchecks.vision.checks.distribution import ImagePropertyDrift
  from skimage.color import rgb2gray
  import numpy as np

  def aspect_ratio(images: List[np.ndarray]) -> List[float]:
    """Return list of floats of image height to width ratio."""
    return [x[0] / x[1] for x in _sizes(batch)]

  def brightness(images: List[np.ndarray]) -> List[float]:
    """Calculate brightness on each image in the batch."""
    # If grayscale
    if images[0].shape[2] == 1:
        return [img.mean() for img in batch]
    else:
        return [rgb2gray(img).mean() for img in batch]

    properties = [
    {'name': 'Aspect Ratio', 'method': aspect_ratio, 'output_type': 'continuous'},
    {'name': 'Brightness', 'method': brightness, 'output_type': 'continuous'}
  ]

  check = ImagePropertyDrift(alternative_image_properties=properties)

Label Property
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> For label property the input is also differed by the task type you are running. In this example we implement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For label property the input varies according to the task type you are running. In this example we implement
```

> properties which are valid for Detection task type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
properties which apply to the Detection task type.
```

.. code-block:: python

  from deepchecks.vision.checks.distribution import TrainTestLabelDrift
  from itertools import chain
  import torch

  def number_of_labels(labels: List[torch.Tensor]) -> List[int]:
    """Return a list containing the number of detections per sample in batch."""
    return [label.shape[0] for label in labels]

  def classes_in_labels(labels: List[torch.Tensor]) -> List[int]:
    """Return a list containing the classes in batch."""
    classes = [label.reshape((-1, 5))[:, 0].tolist() for label in labels]
    return list(chain.from_iterable(classes))

    properties = [
    {'name': 'Labels Per Sample', 'method': number_of_labels, 'output_type': 'discrete'},
    {'name': 'Classes Appearance', 'method': classes_in_labels, 'output_type': 'class_id'}
  ]

  check = TrainTestLabelDrift(alternative_label_properties=properties)

Prediction Property
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Prediction property's input, like label property, is also differed by the task type you are running. In this example we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prediction property's input, like label property, also varies by the task type you are running. In this example we
```

> implement properties which are valid for Detection task type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
implement properties which apply to the Detection task type.
```
